Hello everybody.
Welcome back.
In today's video we're going to jump into the correlation matrix see the relationship between the fields
with each other and try to understand if we need some kind of engineering or not.
We also can use our previous plots that we have used to gauge whether or not we need to do engineering
or we need to remove some columns if not this could always be of course is education not to see the
relationship between our fields.
So let's begin.
The first thing to do here is to just copy paste the code that we have use in the two previous case
studies which is pretty straightforward.
I have it here ready and this is the code for the correlation matrix.
Again we're going to make some changes to this code because this had to work with our dataset ballasted
see what's going on.
So first we of course need to use the dataset to that correlation.
Now this correlation method gives the correlation of each field with each other.
So it is a lot more robust than the core function that we use in the media.
Of course we set up the style of the correlation matrix.
We do a couple of housekeeping.
Again all this has been going over already in the previous case studies and there's no need to review
the seaborne code here.
But all you need to know is that in case you have seen this video of firs is that this will give you
a correlation matrix of the type that you're about to see.
So let's run this and see what we get.
Excellent.
And again if you've seen the previously studies you know that this is my favorite favorite chart so
let's see what we have here.
Now the first column here that we see is the age column.
These also sort of scorch or the age column and the age column is somewhat related to rescore not all
risk course we can see and the relationships are pretty light.
Now if these squares are very colorful like these strong red on the right or strong blue then the correlation
is a little bit stronger.
But it is by stronger I only mean on the level of 0.2 0.3 not too much and you can see that on the légion
on the right.
The legend is telling you that that higher number in this entire correlation matrix is 0.3 on the right
and negative 0.2 on the blue.
So if it's very light then it's even less correlated.
OK.
So we can on our part ignore those correlations for the most part unless they are too prevalent.
So age has a very like correlation with all the other columns.
As you go up here they become a little bit stronger so age has a correlation with income in a positive
way is what you expect as well as years employ.
You could only employ a decade if you are at least a decade after 18.
So obviously there's a relationship there.
But for the most part it is not too related to anything else.
And the same applies for homeowner the second column.
It doesn't have too many strong relationship with any of us.
Now the first thing that we see here that is a strong read in something that we should note is the third
call that can have this big red in the middle.
And what this implies is that that they're called and which means the income column is related to this
Rora here that is which is the amount requested Roe.
So the more income you make in the month the more likely you are to request higher amounts of money
for your loan application.
OK.
Seems I guess somewhat legit.
The next three columns are a little bit light.
So for the middle one right here.
So this is column five this column five represents years employed and of course is strongly related
with current IRS years.
And this makes a lot of sense.
For example if you are employed for a decade in the same job that means that odds are you're going to
be living in the same state or city where the job is located for a long time too.
OK.
And from those people who do that a section of them is a subset of them are going to be living in the
same house or the same apartment for the entirety of their experience.
So it makes sense that a subset of them are very equally correlated with the years employed as well
as current year.
So the correlation makes a little bit of sense.
And the next one is a little bit less important.
And the next ones are less less important until we get into the lower right area.
So we swim here in this lower right area.
We're going to see a lot more red and a little bit more blue here and try to figure out why that is
the first column here on the very left is the column amount requested.
So Amaar requested is strongly correlated with the first rescore which makes sense because we know that
there were scores to open or many many multiple features.
And each of them is different.
So it makes sense that at least one of them especially that the first rescore is dependent on the amount
requested so far so good that in the next one the next feel is rescore number one.
And of course risk number one is somewhat related to the other risk course and negatively related to
the inquiries.
Right now the rest are all related to each other in a sense and this makes sense because all the other
resource are built independently and with different features.
The odds are that if your risk core is high beriberi high for one is going to be somewhat higher for
the other ones as well.
They may be exactly the same but there may be some correlation because if you're a flat or horrible
applicant and you just have the worst financial history ever then you're going to be failing or getting
low scores on a lot of these risk cores even the ones that come in from the marketplace.
So even if you're a good good performer like a quality applicant odds are you're going to get good grades
on multiple those scores.
So that's why there.
You can find here they're correlated.
So there's nothing here that forces us to remove fields because they're too correlated.
We chose there.
We see the correlations the strongest ones aren't up 0.3 level not too much and only the ones that make
sense to be correlated are correlated.
There's nothing here that is too fishy that makes us reconsider whether or not these variables are truly
in the Bend.
OK.
So now that we have finished this quick eyeballing analysis of the dataset we can finalize the edia
process and we can begin the actual data pre-processing process in the model building part.
And that's going to help us remove some of the things that are like overlapping things things are defining
correctly specific for this case study that's going to be the feature engineering.
And we're going to discuss a little bit more of what we're engineer and we're going to do is going to
be only one column but it's going to be is going to make a lot of sense.
Anyways thank you very much for watching.
I'll see you in the next media.